Professor: So what happens
inside the computer
when you quick record
a sound with EarSketch?
I want to walk through
a few basics
of computer architecture
and then explain
exactly what’s happening.
under the hood.
So let’s talk about processes
and memory first.
Now, I want to talk first
about the CPU,
which is also known as
the central processing unit.
This is the brain
of the computer.
It’s what executes
the instructions.
And those instructions
can be instructions
embedded in a program
like your web browser
or like Photoshop or Word.
Or they can be instructions
in a script that you wrote
yourself with EarSketch.
The other really important thing
is memory.
It’s also known as RAM,
random access memory.
This is temporary storage
for things like data,
like audio files,
or instructions like
the programs that the CPU—
the instructions
that it has to execute.
But it’s temporary storage which
means when you quit a program,
when you turn off your computer,
that information that’s stored
in the memory can disappear.
So we also need something
called "secondary storage,"
something like a hard disk
drive.
And this is more long-term
storage—
where you want to store
something that will last
for days or weeks or months
or years
after you turn a computer off
and turn it back on again
as well.
Finally,
we need to think about input,
how signals or data are getting
into a computer—
things like a microphone
or a keyboard or a mouse,
and also things like output—
how data or signals are getting
out of a computer—
things like a screen
or speakers.
So now that we’ve looked
at all that,
let’s see how this all relates
to using the Quick Record
feature in EarSketch
to add a file to your EarSketch
sound browser.
The first thing you do is you
press the Record button.
And when that happens,
you have microphone input—
data coming in from the
microphone on your computer
going through the CPU getting
stored as sound data in memory,
in your RAM.
Then let’s say you want to play
it.
You want to hear what it sounds
like
before you decide whether
you want to keep it or not.
So you hit the PLAY button in
that Quick Record dialogue box.
Well, at that point,
the sound data in your memory
goes back through the CPU
and from there
goes to your speakers
so that you can hear it.
Finally, what happens
if you like the sound
that you recorded?
You decide you want to keep it.
You press the UPLOAD button
to save it to your account
on EarSketch.
Well, what happens then
is a little bit more complex.
The first thing that happens
is the sound data in the memory
goes to the CPU, and it gets
converted into something
called a WAV file,
a standard audio file format.
But it’s still stored in memory.
It’s still temporary storage.
To make that permanent,
that WAV file in memory
goes back through the CPU
and goes across the internet
all the way over to
the EarSketch server.
And the EarSketch server
at that point—
its CPU, the CPU on the server’s
computer—
receives that WAV file.
It stores it, first,
in the server memory,
and then it commits it
to its own secondary storage—
its hard disk on the server.
And that is where it is stored
in the long term.
In that way, no matter
what web browser you’re using,
no matter what computer
you’re using,
wherever you log into EarSketch,
you have access to that sound
file that you saved.
You simply ask the server
to pull it from its secondary
storage and send it back to you
over the internet.